app/async/readme.md, before:

# Async MPC

To achieve asynchronous multi-party computation,

willing to add a server intermediary to make possible,  
minimizing what the server stores.

## Async MPC design summary:

- Alice creates an encrypted payload and gets a signed Share URL
- Bob uses the Share URL to submit his inputs
- The server validates, decrypts, runs the MPC, and sends results to both parties
- The server only stores a hash fingerprint of Alice's payload (with 24-hour expiration for our use case)

The design enables async MPC with minimal server storage.

## Details:

1. Alice loads up MPCApp.com
2. Alice uses app to construct encrypted payload A. The payload is encrypted for MPCApp.com's pub key.
3. Alice POSTs payload to server, along with plaintext contact info for her.
4. The server responds back with the same payload, but now also signed by the server, also including a timestamp. The server doesn't need to store anything yet.
5. Alice's client receives that new signed payload, and constructs an easy "Share URL" for her.
6. Alice can paste this Share URL — which includes the full encrypted payload A and her plaintext contact info, and the timestamp, and the servers' signature — in a message to Bob, over any direct channel (email, signal, sms, telegram, whatever)
7. Bob receives & clicks to open the Share URL: MPCApp.com/?payload=${JSON}
8. Bob's client validates the signature, which includes asking the backend if this payload has been used already. Each initiating payload is only allowed a single usage! Basically the backend queries its local DB, if it has a record of already "resolving" this payload, which is coming in future step 12.
9. If the validation passes — it should iff it's legitimately unused — Bob's client now invites Bob to complete his side of the MPC by submitting his own inputs.
10. Bob POSTs his own private inputs and the encrypted+signed payload from Alice to the backend.
11. The backend now has Bob's inputs, and Alice's (via Bob), and confirms again Alice's is unused. If so, it proceeds to:
12. - a. Decrypt Alice's payload.
    - b. Records in the DB that Alice's payload is now being decrypted— store a hash of it? Easy to check again later, without needing to actually keep the private data itself.
    - c. Runs the pre-agreed-upon MPC logic over the two inputs.
    - d. Sends Alice an email — using her contact info from the signed payload — with the MPC results.
    - e. Responds to Bob's POST with the result, so he can immediately see them too.

## Result:

- MPC completed successfully!
- Async! Alice sends initiation on her own, Bob has $expiration hours to respond.
- Both parties get result, basically at the same time.
- Neither party learns the others' input.
- Server briefly sees the two private inputs, but never needs to store them, not even encrypted.
- Server does need to store the hash fingerprint of Alice's payload.
  - For our particular use-case — "Fair" Negotiating https://deal.dsernst.com — we can set initiators' payloads to "expire" if unresponded to within 24 hours. The server can stateless-ly enforce this by checking the signed payload timestamp, allowing the DB to safely purge any hashes more than 24 hours old, since those will be rejected by outdated timestamps. So low DB size requirements— just the 1 day's worth of resolved-fingerprints.

Commit message:

Async readme: Clarify unique constraint atomicity

app/async/readme.md, after:

# Async MPC

To achieve asynchronous multi-party computation,

willing to add a server intermediary to make possible,  
minimizing what the server stores.

## Async MPC design summary:

- Alice creates an encrypted payload and gets a signed Share URL
- Bob uses the Share URL to submit his inputs
- The server validates, decrypts, runs the MPC, and sends results to both parties
- The server only stores a hash fingerprint of Alice's payload (with 24-hour expiration for our use case)

The design enables async MPC with minimal server storage.

## Details:

1. Alice loads up MPCApp.com
2. Alice uses app to construct encrypted payload A. The payload is encrypted for MPCApp.com's pub key.
3. Alice POSTs payload to server, along with plaintext contact info for her.
4. The server responds back with the same payload, but now also signed by the server, also including a timestamp. The server doesn't need to store anything yet.
5. Alice's client receives that new signed payload, and constructs an easy "Share URL" for her.
6. Alice can paste this Share URL — which includes the full encrypted payload A and her plaintext contact info, and the timestamp, and the servers' signature — in a message to Bob, over any direct channel (email, signal, sms, telegram, whatever)
7. Bob receives & clicks to open the Share URL: MPCApp.com/?payload=${JSON}
8. Bob's client validates the signature, which includes asking the backend if this payload has been used already. Each initiating payload is only allowed a single usage! Basically the backend queries its local DB, if it has a record of already "resolving" this payload, which is coming in future step 12.
9. If the validation passes — it should iff it's legitimately unused — Bob's client now invites Bob to complete his side of the MPC by submitting his own inputs.
10. Bob POSTs his own private inputs and the encrypted+signed payload from Alice to the backend.
11. The backend now has Bob's inputs, and Alice's (via Bob), and atomically confirms Alice's payload is unused by attempting to insert a hash of it into the DB, with a unique constraint. If the insert succeeds (payload is unused), it proceeds to:
12. - a. Decrypt Alice's payload.
    - b. Runs the pre-agreed-upon MPC logic over the two inputs.
    - c. Sends Alice an email — using her contact info from the signed payload — with the MPC results.
    - d. Responds to Bob's POST with the result, so he can immediately see them too.

## Result:

- MPC completed successfully!
- Async! Alice sends initiation on her own, Bob has $expiration hours to respond.
- Both parties get result, basically at the same time.
- Neither party learns the others' input.
- Server briefly sees the two private inputs, but never needs to store them, not even encrypted.
- Server does need to store the hash fingerprint of Alice's payload.
  - For our particular use-case — "Fair" Negotiating https://deal.dsernst.com — we can set initiators' payloads to "expire" if unresponded to within 24 hours. The server can stateless-ly enforce this by checking the signed payload timestamp, allowing the DB to safely purge any hashes more than 24 hours old, since those will be rejected by outdated timestamps. So low DB size requirements— just the 1 day's worth of resolved-fingerprints.
